---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Be Smart to Ask Smart Question"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-07
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Reflection
  - Question
  - StackOverflow
---

Nowadays, the development of the network allows us to easily get the answers we want, when we want to know something, we can directly through the Google search engine and other ways to directly access the content we want. But usually some content is not very direct through the search engine to get, or want to get more intuitive than the search engine more detailed content, these problems often can only seek the help of others. So the emergence of forums like StackOverflow can often help many people, but forums often have forum rules and regulations. Asking a smart question can often attract more people to answer and allow you to get the answer you want more quickly.

# [Example Question1](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4906977/how-can-i-access-environment-variables-in-python):
This is a "How can I use X to do Y?" question, a typically stupid question asking directly how to access environment variables in Python, which can be answered simply by Python's documentation or a Google search. Asking such simple questions in StackOverflow is stupid.

# [Example Question2](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/105034/how-do-i-create-a-guid-uuid):
This is a very clever question, where the questioner describes his or her understanding of the problem and the solution, and makes it clear that he or she has already obtained the answer through an internet search, but is still unsure of the correctness of the answer. It is for this reason that the question is asked for help.

# Conclusion:
For software engineers, efficiency is everything, and when help is needed, asking a smart question can often be very efficient and quick to get answers provided by others. And fulfilling the rules of a smart question often requires a catchy enough title to let others know that you tried in vain to find the answer. Provide enough information to help others to answer your question. And stupid questions are often not always appealing, and even if someone answers your question, it's often not always guaranteed to be correct, or reliable. So asking a smart question can often get you and the person answering it twice as far.
